# Basics of working with sound

Computers can capture and encode digital audio—computer representation of sound
information—and can store it and retrieve it to play back over speakers. You can
play back sound using either Adobe® Flash® Player or Adobe® AIR™ and
ActionScript.

When sound data is converted to digital form, it has various characteristics,
such as the sound's volume and whether it is stereo or mono sound. When you play
back a sound in ActionScript, you can adjust these characteristics as well—make
the sound louder, or make it seem to be coming from a certain direction, for
instance.

Before you can control a sound in ActionScript, you need to have the sound
information loaded into Flash Player or AIR. There are five ways you can get
audio data into Flash Player or AIR so that you can work with it using
ActionScript.

- Load an external sound file such as an mp3 file into the SWF.

- Embed the sound information into the SWF file directly when it's being
  created.

- Capture audio from a microphone attached to a user's computer.

- Stream audio from a server.

- Dynamically generate and play audio.

When you load sound data from an external sound file, you can begin playing back
the start of the sound file while the rest of the sound data is still loading.

Although there are various sound file formats used to encode digital audio,
ActionScript 3.0, Flash Player and AIR support sound files that are stored in
the mp3 format. They cannot directly load or play sound files in other formats
like WAV or AIFF.

While you're working with sound in ActionScript, you'll likely work with several
classes from the flash.media package. The Sound class is the class you use to
get access to audio information by loading a sound file or assigning a function
to an event that samples sound data and then starting playback. Once you start
playing a sound, Flash Player and AIR give you access to a SoundChannel object.
Since an audio file that you've loaded may only be one of several sounds that
you play on a user's computer, each individual sound that's playing uses its own
SoundChannel object; the combined output of all the SoundChannel objects mixed
together is what actually plays over the computer's speakers. You use this
SoundChannel instance to control properties of the sound and to stop its
playback. Finally, if you want to control the combined audio, the SoundMixer
class gives you control over the mixed output.

You can also use several other classes to perform more specific tasks when
you're working with sound in ActionScript; for more information on all the
sound-related classes, see
[Understanding the sound architecture](WS5b3ccc516d4fbf351e63e3d118a9b90204-7d26.html).

#### Important concepts and terms

The following reference list contains important terms that you may encounter:

Amplitude  
The distance of a point on the sound waveform from the zero or equilibrium line.

Bit rate  
The amount of data that is encoded or streamed for each second of a sound file.
For mp3 files, the bit rate is usually stated in terms of thousands of bits per
second (kbps). A higher bit rate generally means a higher quality sound wave.

Buffering  
The receiving and storing of sound data before it is played back.

mp3  
MPEG-1 Audio Layer 3, or mp3, is a popular sound compression format.

Panning  
The positioning of an audio signal between the left and right channels in a
stereo soundfield.

Peak  
The highest point in a waveform.

Sampling rate  
Defines the number of samples per second taken from an analog audio signal to
make a digital signal. The sampling rate of standard compact disc audio is 44.1
kHz or 44,100 samples per second.

Streaming  
The process of playing the early portions of a sound file or video file while
later portions of that file are still being loaded from a server.

Volume  
The loudness of a sound.

Waveform  
The shape of a graph of the varying amplitudes of a sound signal over time.
