# Basics of the drawing API

The drawing API is the name for the functionality built into ActionScript that
allows you to create vector graphics—lines, curves, shapes, fills, and
gradients—and display them on the screen using ActionScript. The
flash.display.Graphics class provides this functionality. You can draw with
ActionScript on any Shape, Sprite, or MovieClip instance, using the `graphics`
property defined in each of those classes. (Each of those classes' `graphics`
property is in fact an instance of the Graphics class.)

If you're just getting started with drawing with code, the Graphics class
includes several methods that make it easy to draw common shapes like circles,
ellipses, rectangles, and rectangles with rounded corners. You can draw them as
empty lines or filled shapes. When you need more advanced functionality, the
Graphics class also includes methods for drawing lines and quadratic Bézier
curves, which you can use in conjunction with the trigonometry functions in the
Math class to create any shape you need.

Flash runtimes (such as Flash Player 10 and Adobe AIR 1.5 and later versions)
add an additional API for drawing, which allow you to programmatically draw
entire shapes with a single command. Once you're familiar with the Graphics
class and tasks covered in "Basics of using the drawing API", continue to
[Advanced use of the drawing API](./advanced-use-of-the-drawing-api.md) to learn
more about these drawing API features.

#### Important concepts and terms

The following reference list contains important terms that you will encounter
while using the drawing API:

Anchor point  
One of the two end points of a quadratic Bézier curve.

Control point  
The point that defines the direction and amount of curve of a quadratic Bézier
curve. The curved line never reaches the control point; however, the line curves
as though being drawn toward the control point.

Coordinate space  
The graph of coordinates contained in a display object, on which its child
elements are positioned.

Fill  
The solid inner portion of a shape that has a line filled in with color, or all
of a shape that has no outline.

Gradient  
A color that consists of a gradual transition from one color to one or more
other colors (as opposed to a solid color).

Point  
A single location in a coordinate space. In the 2-d coordinate system used in
ActionScript, a point is defined by its location along the x axis and the y axis
(the point's coordinates).

Quadratic Bézier curve  
A type of curve defined by a particular mathematical formula. In this type of
curve, the shape of the curve is calculated based on the positions of the anchor
points (the end points of the curve) and a control point that defines the amount
and direction of the curve.

Scale  
The size of an object relative to its original size. When used as a verb, to
scale an object means to change its size by stretching or shrinking the object.

Stroke  
The outline portion of a shape that has a line filled in with color, or the
lines of an un-filled shape.

Translate  
To change a point's coordinates from one coordinate space to another.

X axis  
The horizontal axis in the 2-d coordinate system used in ActionScript.

Y axis  
The vertical axis in the 2-d coordinate system used in ActionScript.
