# Convolution filter

<div>

The ConvolutionFilter class can be used to apply a wide range of imaging
transformations to BitmapData objects or display objects, such as blurring, edge
detection, sharpening, embossing, and beveling.

The convolution filter conceptually goes through each pixel in the source image
one by one and determines the final color of that pixel using the value of the
pixel and its surrounding pixels. A matrix, specified as an array of numeric
values, indicates to what degree the value of each particular neighboring pixel
affects the final resulting value.

Consider the most commonly used type of matrix, which is a three by three
matrix. The matrix includes nine values:

    N    N    N
    N    P    N
    N    N    N

When the convolution filter is applied to a certain pixel, it will look at the
color value of the pixel itself ("P" in the example), as well as the values of
the surrounding pixels (labeled "N" in the example). However, by setting values
in the matrix, you specify how much priority certain pixels have in affecting
the resulting image.

For example, the following matrix, applied using a convolution filter, will
leave an image exactly as it was:

    0    0    0
    0    1    0
    0    0    0

The reason the image is unchanged is because the original pixel's value has a
relative strength of 1 in determining the final pixel color, while the
surrounding pixels' values have relative strength of 0—meaning their colors
don't affect the final image.

Similarly, this matrix will cause the pixels of an image to shift one pixel to
the left:

    0    0    0
    0    0    1
    0    0    0

Notice that in this case, the pixel itself has no effect on the final value of
the pixel displayed in that location on the final image—only the value of the
pixel to the right is used to determine the pixel's resulting value.

In ActionScript, you create the matrix as a combination of an Array instance
containing the values and two properties specifying the number of rows and
columns in the matrix. The following example loads an image and, when the image
finishes loading, applies a convolution filter to the image using the matrix in
the previous listing:

    // Load an image onto the Stage.
    var loader:Loader = new Loader();
    var url:URLRequest = new URLRequest("http://www.helpexamples.com/flash/images/image1.jpg");
    loader.load(url);
    this.addChild(loader);

    function applyFilter(event:MouseEvent):void
    {
        // Create the convolution matrix.
        var matrix:Array = [0, 0, 0,
                            0, 0, 1,
                            0, 0, 0];

        var convolution:ConvolutionFilter = new ConvolutionFilter();
        convolution.matrixX = 3;
        convolution.matrixY = 3;
        convolution.matrix = matrix;
        convolution.divisor = 1;

        loader.filters = [convolution];
    }

    loader.addEventListener(MouseEvent.CLICK, applyFilter);

Something that isn't obvious in this code is the effect of using values other
than 1 or 0 in the matrix. For example, the same matrix, with the number 8
instead of 1 in the right-hand position, performs the same action (shifting the
pixels to the left). In addition, it affects the colors of the image, making
them 8 times brighter. This is because the final pixel color values are
calculated by multiplying the matrix values by the original pixel colors, adding
the values together, and dividing by the value of the filter's `divisor`
property. Notice that in the example code, the `divisor` property is set to 1.
As a general rule, if you want the brightness of the colors to stay about the
same as in the original image, you should make the divisor equal to the sum of
the matrix values. So with a matrix where the values add up to 8, and a divisor
of 1, the resulting image is going to be roughly 8 times brighter than the
original image.

Although the effect of this matrix isn't very noticeable, other matrix values
can be used to create various effects. Here are several standard sets of matrix
values for different effects using a three by three matrix:

- Basic blur (divisor 5):

       0 1 0
       1 1 1
       0 1 0

- Sharpening (divisor 1):

       0, -1, 0
      -1, 5, -1
       0, -1, 0

- Edge detection (divisor 1):

       0, -1, 0
      -1, 4, -1
       0, -1, 0

- Embossing effect (divisor 1):

       -2, -1, 0
      -1, 1, 1
       0, 1, 2

  Notice that with most of these effects, the divisor is 1. This is because the
  negative matrix values added to the positive matrix values result in 1 (or 0
  in the case of edge detection, but the `divisor` property's value cannot be
  0).

</div>
