# Basics of display programming

<div>

Each application built with ActionScript 3.0 has a hierarchy of displayed
objects known as the _display list_, illustrated below. The display list
contains all the visible elements in the application.

<div xmlns:fn="http://www.w3.org/2005/xpath-functions"
xmlns:fo="http://www.w3.org/1999/XSL/Format"
xmlns:xs="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema">

![<Display list hierarchy>](../../img/dp_Display_List_Organization.png)

</div>

As the illustration shows, display elements fall into one or more of the
following groups:

- The Stage

  The Stage is the base container of display objects. Each application has one
  Stage object, which contains all on-screen display objects. The Stage is the
  top-level container and is at the top of the display list hierarchy:

  Each SWF file has an associated ActionScript class, known as _the main class
  of the SWF file_ When a SWF file opens in Flash Player or Adobe AIR, Flash
  Player or AIR calls the constructor function for that class and the instance
  that is created (which is always a type of display object) is added as a child
  of the Stage object. The main class of a SWF file always extends the Sprite
  class (for more information, see
  [Advantages of the display list approach](./advantages-of-the-display-list-approach.md)).

  You can access the Stage through the `stage` property of any DisplayObject
  instance. For more information, see
  [Setting Stage properties](./setting-stage-properties.md).

- Display objects

  In ActionScript 3.0, all elements that appear on screen in an application are
  types of _display objects_. The flash.display package includes a <a
  href="http://help.adobe.com/en_US/FlashPlatform/reference/actionscript/3/flash/display/DisplayObject.html"
  target="_self">DisplayObject</a> class, which is a base class extended by a
  number of other classes. These different classes represent different types of
  display objects, such as vector shapes, movie clips, and text fields, to name
  a few. For an overview of these classes, see
  [Advantages of the display list approach](./advantages-of-the-display-list-approach.md).

- Display object containers

  Display object containers are special types of display objects that, in
  addition to having their own visual representation, can also contain child
  objects that are also display objects.

  The <a
  href="http://help.adobe.com/en_US/FlashPlatform/reference/actionscript/3/flash/display/DisplayObjectContainer.html"
  target="_self">DisplayObjectContainer</a> class is a subclass of the
  DisplayObject class. A DisplayObjectContainer object can contain multiple
  display objects in its _child_ _list_. For example, the following illustration
  shows a type of DisplayObjectContainer object known as a Sprite that contains
  various display objects:

  <div xmlns:fn="http://www.w3.org/2005/xpath-functions"
  xmlns:fo="http://www.w3.org/1999/XSL/Format"
  xmlns:xs="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema">

  ![<Sprite containing display objects>](../../img/dp_bananaFrame.png) A.  
  A SimpleButton object. This type of display object has different “up,” “down,”
  and “over” states.

  B.  
  A Bitmap object. In this case, the Bitmap object was loaded from an external
  JPEG through a Loader object.

  C.  
  A Shape object. The “picture frame” contains a rounded rectangle that is drawn
  in ActionScript. This Shape object has a Drop Shadow filter applied to it.

  D.  
  A TextField object.

  </div>

  In the context of discussing display objects, DisplayObjectContainer objects
  are also known as _display object containers_ or simply _containers_. As noted
  earlier, the Stage is a display object container.

  Although all visible display objects inherit from the DisplayObject class, the
  type of each is of a specific subclass of DisplayObject class. For example,
  there is a constructor function for the Shape class or the Video class, but
  there is no constructor function for the DisplayObject class.

<div>

#### Important concepts and terms

The following reference list contains important terms that you will encounter
when programming ActionScript graphics:

Alpha  
The color value representing the amount of transparency (or more correctly, the
amount of opacity) in a color. For example, a color with an alpha channel value
of 60% only shows 60% of its full strength, and is 40% transparent.

Bitmap graphic  
A graphic that is defined in the computer as a grid (rows and columns) of
colored pixels. Commonly bitmap graphics include digital photos and similar
images.

Blending mode  
A specification of how the contents of two overlapping images should interact.
Commonly an opaque image on top of another image simply blocks the image
underneath so that it isn’t visible at all; however, different blending modes
cause the colors of the images to blend together in different ways so the
resulting content is some combination of the two images.

Display list  
The hierarchy of display objects that will be rendered as visible screen content
by Flash Player and AIR. The Stage is the root of the display list, and all the
display objects that are attached to the Stage or one of its children form the
display list (even if the object isn’t actually rendered, for example if it’s
outside the boundaries of the Stage).

Display object  
An object which represents some type of visual content in Flash Player or AIR.
Only display objects can be included in the display list, and all display object
classes are subclasses of the DisplayObject class.

Display object container  
A special type of display object which can contain child display objects in
addition to (generally) having its own visual representation.

Main class of the SWF file  
The class that defines the behavior for the outermost display object in a SWF
file, which conceptually is the class for the SWF file itself. For instance, in
a SWF created in Flash authoring, the main class is the document class. It has a
“main timeline” which contains all other timelines; the main class of the SWF
file is the class of which the main timeline is an instance.

Masking  
A technique of hiding from view certain parts of an image (or conversely, only
allowing certain parts of an image to display). The portions of the mask image
become transparent, so content underneath shows through. The term is related to
painter’s masking tape that is used to prevent paint from being applied to
certain areas.

Stage  
The visual container that is the base or background of all visual content in a
SWF.

Transformation  
An adjustment to a visual characteristic of a graphic, such as rotating the
object, altering its scale, skewing or distorting its shape, or altering its
color.

Vector graphic  
A graphic that is defined in the computer as lines and shapes drawn with
particular characteristics (such as thickness, length, size, angle, and
position).

</div>

</div>
