# Setting Stage properties

The Stage class overrides most properties and methods of the DisplayObject
class. If you call one of these overridden properties or methods, Flash Player
and AIR throw an exception. For example, the Stage object does not have `x` or
`y` properties, since its position is fixed as the main container for the
application. The `x` and `y` properties refer to the position of a display
object relative to its container, and since the Stage is not contained in
another display object container, these properties do not apply.

> **Note:** Some properties and methods of the Stage class are only available to
> display objects that are in the same security sandbox as the first SWF file
> loaded. For details, see
> [Stage security](../../security/cross-scripting.md#stage-security).

## Controlling the playback frame rate

The `frameRate` property of the Stage class is used to set the frame rate for
all SWF files loaded into the application. For more information, see the
[`Stage.frameRate`](https://help.adobe.com/en_US/FlashPlatform/reference/actionscript/3/flash/display/Stage.html#frameRate)
property description in the
[ActionScript 3.0 Reference for the Adobe Flash Platform](https://help.adobe.com/en_US/FlashPlatform/reference/actionscript/3/index.html).

## Controlling Stage scaling

When the portion of the screen representing Flash Player or AIR is resized, the
runtime automatically adjusts the Stage contents to compensate. The Stage
class's `scaleMode` property determines how the Stage contents are adjusted.
This property can be set to four different values, defined as constants in the
flash.display.StageScaleMode class:

- `StageScaleMode.EXACT_FIT` scales the SWF to fill the new stage dimensions
  without regard for the original content aspect ratio. The scale factors might
  not be the same for width and height, so the content can appear squeezed or
  stretched if the aspect ratio of the stage is changed.

- `StageScaleMode.SHOW_ALL` scales the SWF to fit entirely within the new stage
  dimensions without changing the content aspect ratio. This scale mode displays
  all of the content, but can result in "letterbox" borders, like the black bars
  that appear when viewing a wide-screen movie on a standard television.

- `StageScaleMode.NO_BORDER` scales the SWF to entirely fill the new stage
  dimensions without changing the aspect ratio of the content. This scale mode
  makes full use of the stage display area, but can result in cropping.

- `StageScaleMode.NO_SCALE` â€” does not scale the SWF. If the new stage
  dimensions are smaller, the content is cropped; if larger, the added space is
  blank.

  In the `StageScaleMode.NO_SCALE` scale mode only, the stage `Width` and stage
  `Height` properties of the Stage class can be used to determine the actual
  pixel dimensions of the resized stage. (In the other scale modes, the
  `stageWidth` and `stageHeight` properties always reflect the original width
  and height of the SWF.) In addition, when `scaleMode` is set to
  `StageScaleMode.NO_SCALE` and the SWF file is resized, the Stage class's
  `resize` event is dispatched, allowing you to make adjustments accordingly.

  Consequently, having `scaleMode` set to `StageScaleMode.NO_SCALE` allows you
  to have greater control over how the screen contents adjust to the window
  resizing if you desire. For example, in a SWF containing a video and a control
  bar, you might want to make the control bar stay the same size when the Stage
  is resized, and only change the size of the video window to accommodate the
  Stage size change. This is demonstrated in the following example:

      // mainContent is a display object containing the main content;
      // it is positioned at the top-left corner of the Stage, and
      // it should resize when the SWF resizes.

      // controlBar is a display object (e.g. a Sprite) containing several
      // buttons; it should stay positioned at the bottom-left corner of the
      // Stage (below mainContent) and it should not resize when the SWF
      // resizes.

      import flash.display.Stage;
      import flash.display.StageAlign;
      import flash.display.StageScaleMode;
      import flash.events.Event;

      var swfStage:Stage = mainContent.stage;
      swfStage.scaleMode = StageScaleMode.NO_SCALE;
      swfStage.align = StageAlign.TOP_LEFT;
      swfStage.addEventListener(Event.RESIZE, resizeDisplay);

      function resizeDisplay(event:Event):void
      {
          var swfWidth:int = swfStage.stageWidth;
          var swfHeight:int = swfStage.stageHeight;

          // Resize the main content area
          var newContentHeight:Number = swfHeight - controlBar.height;
          mainContent.height = newContentHeight;
          mainContent.scaleX = mainContent.scaleY;

          // Reposition the control bar.
          controlBar.y = newContentHeight;
      }

#### Setting the stage scale mode for AIR windows

The stage `scaleMode` property determines how the stage scales and clips child
display objects when a window is resized. Only the `noScale` mode should be used
in AIR. In this mode, the stage is not scaled. Instead, the size of the stage
changes directly with the bounds of the window. Objects may be clipped if the
window is resized smaller.

The stage scale modes are designed for use in a environments such as a web
browser where you don't always have control over the size or aspect ratio of the
stage. The modes let you choose the least bad compromise when the stage does not
match the ideal size or aspect ratio of your application. In AIR, you always
have control of the stage, so in most cases re-laying out your content or
adjusting the dimensions of your window will give you better results than
enabling stage scaling.

In the browser and for the initial AIR window, the relationship between the
window size and the initial scale factor is read from the loaded SWF file.
However, when you create a NativeWindow object, AIR chooses an arbitrary
relationship between the window size and the scale factor of 72:1. Thus, if your
window is 72x72 pixels, a 10x10 rectangle added to the window is drawn the
correct size of 10x10 pixels. However, if the window is 144x144 pixels, then a
10x10 pixel rectangle is scaled to 20x20 pixels. If you insist on using a
`scaleMode` other than `noScale` for a window stage, you can compensate by
setting the scale factor of any display objects in the window to the ratio of 72
pixels to the current width and height of the stage. For example, the following
code calculates the required scale factor for a display object named `client`:

    if(newWindow.stage.scaleMode != StageScaleMode.NO_SCALE){
        client.scaleX = 72/newWindow.stage.stageWidth;
        client.scaleY = 72/newWindow.stage.stageHeight;
    }

> **Note:** Flex and HTML windows automatically set the stage `scaleMode` to
> `noScale`. Changing the `scaleMode` disturbs the automatic layout mechanisms
> used in these types of windows.

## Working with full-screen mode

Full-screen mode allows you to set a movie's stage to fill a viewer's entire
monitor without any container borders or menus. The Stage class's `displayState`
property is used to toggle full-screen mode on and off for a SWF. The
`displayState` property can be set to one of the values defined by the constants
in the flash.display.StageDisplayState class. To turn on full-screen mode, set
the `displayState` property to `StageDisplayState.FULL_SCREEN`:

    stage.displayState = StageDisplayState.FULL_SCREEN;

To turn on full-screen interactive mode (new in Flash Player 11.3), set the
`displayState` property to `StageDisplayState.FULL_SCREEN_INTERACTIVE`:

    stage.displayState = StageDisplayState.FULL_SCREEN_INTERACTIVE;

In Flash Player, full-screen mode can only be initiated through ActionScript in
response to a mouse click (including right-click) or keypress. AIR content
running in the application security sandbox does not require that full-screen
mode be entered in response to a user gesture.

To exit full-screen mode, set the `displayState` property to
`StageDisplayState.NORMAL`.

    stage.displayState = StageDisplayState.NORMAL;

In addition, a user can choose to leave full-screen mode by switching focus to a
different window or by using one of several key combinations: the Esc key (all
platforms), Control-W (Windows), Command-W (Mac), or Alt-F4 (Windows).

#### Enabling full-screen mode in Flash Player

To enable full-screen mode for a SWF file embedded in an HTML page, the HTML
code to embed Flash Player must include a `param` tag and `embed` attribute with
the name `allowFullScreen` and value `true`, like this:

    <object>
        ...
        <param name="allowFullScreen" value="true" />
        <embed ... allowFullScreen="true" />
    </object>

In the Flash authoring tool, select File -\> Publish Settings and in the Publish
Settings dialog box, on the HTML tab, select the Flash Only - Allow Full Screen
template.

In Flex, ensure that the HTML template includes `<object>` and `<embed>` tags
that support full screen.

If you are using JavaScript in a web page to generate the SWF-embedding tags,
you must alter the JavaScript to add the `allowFullScreen param` tag and
attribute. For example, if your HTML page uses the `AC_FL_RunContent()` function
(which is used in HTML pages generated by Flash Professional and Flash Builder),
you should add the `allowFullScreen` parameter to that function call as follows:

    AC_FL_RunContent(
        ...
        'allowFullScreen','true',
        ...
    ); //end AC code

This does not apply to SWF files running in the stand-alone Flash Player.

> **Note:** If you set the Window Mode (wmode in the HTML) to Opaque Windowless
> (opaque) or Transparent Windowless (transparent), the full-screen window is
> always opaque

There are also security-related restrictions for using full-screen mode with
Flash Player in a browser. These restrictions are described in
[Security](../../security/index.md).

#### Enabling full-screen interactive mode in Flash Player 11.3 and higher

Flash Player 11.3 and higher support full-screen interactive mode, which enables
full support for all keyboard keys (except for **Esc**, which exits full-screen
interactive mode). Full-screen interactive mode is useful for gaming (for
example, to enable chat in a multi-player game or WASD keyboard controls in a
first-person shooter game.)

To enable full-screen interactive mode for a SWF file embedded in an HTML page,
the HTML code to embed Flash Player must include a `param` tag and `embed`
attribute with the name `allowFullScreenInteractive` and value `true`, like
this:

    <object>
        ...
        <param name="allowFullScreenInteractive" value="true" />
        <embed ... allowFullScreenInteractive="true" />
    </object>

In the Flash authoring tool, select File -\> Publish Settings and in the Publish
Settings dialog box, on the HTML tab, select the Flash Only - Allow Full Screen
Interactive template.

In Flash Builder and Flex, ensure that the HTML templates include `<object>` and
`<embed>` tags that support full screen interactive mode.

If you are using JavaScript in a web page to generate the SWF-embedding tags,
you must alter the JavaScript to add the `allowFullScreenInteractive param` tag
and attribute. For example, if your HTML page uses the `AC_FL_RunContent()`
function (which is used in HTML pages generated by Flash Professional and Flash
Builder), you should add the `allowFullScreenInteractive` parameter to that
function call as follows:

    AC_FL_RunContent(
        ...
        'allowFullScreenInteractive','true',
        ...
    ); //end AC code

This does not apply to SWF files running in the stand-alone Flash Player.

#### Full screen stage size and scaling

The `Stage.fullScreenHeight` and `Stage.fullScreenWidth` properties return the
height and the width of the monitor that's used when going to full-screen size,
if that state is entered immediately. These values can be incorrect if the user
has the opportunity to move the browser from one monitor to another after you
retrieve these values but before entering full-screen mode. If you retrieve
these values in the same event handler where you set the `Stage.displayState`
property to `StageDisplayState.FULL_SCREEN`, the values are correct.For users
with multiple monitors, the SWF content expands to fill only one monitor. Flash
Player and AIR use a metric to determine which monitor contains the greatest
portion of the SWF, and uses that monitor for full-screen mode. The
fullScreenHeight and fullScreenWidth properties only reflect the size of the
monitor that is used for full-screen mode. For more information, see the
[`Stage.fullScreenHeight`](https://help.adobe.com/en_US/FlashPlatform/reference/actionscript/3/flash/display/Stage.html#fullScreenHeight)
and
[`Stage.fullScreenWidth`](https://help.adobe.com/en_US/FlashPlatform/reference/actionscript/3/flash/display/Stage.html#fullScreenWidth)
property descriptions in the
[ActionScript 3.0 Reference for the Adobe Flash Platform](https://help.adobe.com/en_US/FlashPlatform/reference/actionscript/3/index.html).

Stage scaling behavior for full-screen mode is the same as under normal mode;
the scaling is controlled by the Stage class's `scaleMode` property. If the
`scaleMode` property is set to `StageScaleMode.NO_SCALE`, the Stage's
`stageWidth` and `stageHeight` properties change to reflect the size of the
screen area occupied by the SWF (the entire screen, in this case); if viewed in
the browser the HTML parameter for this controls the setting.

You can use the Stage class's `fullScreen` event to detect and respond when
full-screen mode is turned on or off. For example, you might want to reposition,
add, or remove items from the screen when entering or leaving full-screen mode,
as in this example:

    import flash.events.FullScreenEvent;

    function fullScreenRedraw(event:FullScreenEvent):void
    {
        if (event.fullScreen)
        {
            // Remove input text fields.
            // Add a button that closes full-screen mode.
        }
        else
        {
            // Re-add input text fields.
            // Remove the button that closes full-screen mode.
        }
    }

    mySprite.stage.addEventListener(FullScreenEvent.FULL_SCREEN, fullScreenRedraw);

As this code shows, the event object for the `fullScreen` event is an instance
of the flash.events.FullScreenEvent class, which includes a `fullScreen`
property indicating whether full-screen mode is enabled (`true`) or not
(`false`).

#### Keyboard support in full-screen mode

When Flash Player runs in a browser, all keyboard-related ActionScript, such as
keyboard events and text entry in TextField instances, is disabled in
full-screen mode. The exceptions (the keys that are enabled) are:

- Selected non-printing keys, specifically the arrow keys, space bar, and tab
  key

- Keyboard shortcuts that terminate full-screen mode: Esc (Windows and Mac),
  Control-W (Windows), Command-W (Mac), and Alt-F4

These restrictions are not present for SWF content running in the stand-alone
Flash Player or in AIR. AIR supports an interactive full-screen mode that allows
keyboard input.

#### Mouse support in full-screen mode

By default, mouse events in full-screen mode work the same way as when not in
full-screen mode. However, in full-screen mode, you can optionally set the
`Stage.mouseLock` property to enable mouse locking. Mouse locking disables the
cursor and enables unbounded mouse movement.

> **Note:** You can only enable mouse locking in full-screen mode for desktop
> applications. Setting it on applications not in full-screen mode, or for
> applications on mobile devices, throws an exception.

Mouse locking is disabled automatically and the mouse cursor is made visible
again when:

- The user exits full-screen mode by using the Escape key (all platforms),
  Control-W (Windows), Command-W (Mac), or Alt-F4 (Windows).

- The application window loses focus.

- Any settings UI is visible, including all privacy dialog boxes.

- A native dialog box is shown, such as a file upload dialog box.

Events associated with mouse movement, such as the `mouseMove` event, use the
MouseEvent class to represent the event object. When mouse locking is disabled,
use the `MouseEvent.localX` and `MouseEvent.localY` properties to determine the
location of the mouse.When mouse locking is enabled, use the
`MouseEvent.movementX` and `MouseEvent.movementY` properties to determine the
location of the mouse. The `movementX` and `movementY` properties contain
changes in the position of the mouse since the last event, instead of absolute
coordinates of the mouse location.

#### Hardware scaling in full-screen mode

You can use the Stage class's `fullScreenSourceRect` property to set Flash
Player or AIR to scale a specific region of the stage to full-screen mode. Flash
Player and AIR scale in hardware, if available, using the graphics and video
card on a user's computer, and generally display content more quickly than
software scaling.

To take advantage of hardware scaling, you set the whole stage or part of the
stage to full-screen mode. The following ActionScript 3.0 code sets the whole
stage to full-screen mode:

    import flash.geom.*;
    {
        stage.fullScreenSourceRect = new Rectangle(0,0,320,240);
        stage.displayState = StageDisplayState.FULL_SCREEN;
    }

When this property is set to a valid rectangle and the `displayState` property
is set to full-screen mode, Flash Player and AIR scale the specified area. The
actual Stage size in pixels within ActionScript does not change. Flash Player
and AIR enforce a minimum limit for the size of the rectangle to accommodate the
standard "Press Esc to exit full-screen mode" message. This limit is usually
around 260 by 30 pixels but can vary depending on platform and Flash Player
version.

![](../../img/tip_help.png) The `fullScreenSourceRect` property can only be set
when Flash Player or AIR is not in full-screen mode. To use this property
correctly, set this property first, then set the `displayState` _property to
full-screen mode._

To enable scaling, set the `fullScreenSourceRect` property to a rectangle
object.

    stage.fullScreenSourceRect = new Rectangle(0,0,320,240);

To disable scaling, set the `fullScreenSourceRect` property to `null`.

    stage.fullScreenSourceRect = null;

To take advantage of all hardware acceleration features with Flash Player,
enable it through the Flash Player Settings dialog box. To load the dialog box,
right-click (Windows) or Control-click (Mac) inside Flash Player content in your
browser. Select the Display tab, which is the first tab, and click the checkbox:
Enable hardware acceleration.

#### Direct and GPU-compositing window modes

Flash Player 10 introduces two window modes, direct and GPU compositing, which
you can enable through the publish settings in the Flash authoring tool. These
modes are not supported in AIR. To take advantage of these modes, you must
enable hardware acceleration for Flash Player.

Direct mode uses the fastest, most direct path to push graphics to the screen,
which is advantageous for video playback.

GPU Compositing uses the graphics processing unit on the video card to
accelerate compositing. Video compositing is the process of layering multiple
images to create a single video image. When compositing is accelerated with the
GPU it can improve the performance of YUV conversion, color correction, rotation
or scaling, and blending. YUV conversion refers to the color conversion of
composite analog signals, which are used for transmission, to the RGB (red,
green, blue) color model that video cameras and displays use. Using the GPU to
accelerate compositing reduces the memory and computational demands that are
otherwise placed on the CPU. It also results in smoother playback for
standard-definition video.

Be cautious in implementing these window modes. Using GPU compositing can be
expensive for memory and CPU resources. If some operations (such as blend modes,
filtering, clipping or masking) cannot be carried out in the GPU, they are done
by the software. Adobe recommends limiting yourself to one SWF file per HTML
page when using these modes and you should not enable these modes for banners.
The Flash Test Movie facility does not use hardware acceleration but you can use
it through the Publish Preview option.

Setting a frame rate in your SWF file that is higher than 60, the maximum screen
refresh rate, is useless. Setting the frame rate from 50 through 55 allows for
dropped frames, which can occur for various reasons from time to time.

Using direct mode requires Microsoft DirectX 9 with VRAM 128 MB on Windows and
OpenGL for Apple Macintosh, Mac OS X v10.2 or higher. GPU compositing requires
Microsoft DirectX 9 and Pixel Shader 2.0 support on Windows with 128 MB of VRAM.
On Mac OS X and Linux, GPU compositing requires OpenGL 1.5 and several OpenGL
extensions (framebuffer object, multitexture, shader objects, shading language,
fragment shader).

You can activate `direct` and `gpu` acceleration modes on a per-SWF basis
through the Flash Publish Settings dialog box, using the Hardware Acceleration
menu on the Flash tab. If you choose None, the window mode reverts to `default`,
`transparent`, or `opaque`, as specified by the Window Mode setting on the HTML
tab.
