# Performing complex 3D transformations

<div>

The Matrix3D class lets you transform 3D points within a coordinate space or map
3D points from one coordinate space to another.

You don't need to understand matrix mathematics to use the Matrix3D class. Most
of the common transformation operations can be handled using the methods of the
class. You don't have to worry about explicitly setting or calculating the
values of each element in the matrix.

After you set the `z` property of a display object to a numeric value, you can
retrieve the object's transformation matrix using the Matrix3D property of the
display object's Transform object:

<div>

    var leafMatrix:Matrix3D = this.transform.matrix3D;

</div>

You can use the methods of the Matrix3D object to perform translation, rotation,
scaling, and perspective projection on the display object.

Use the Vector3D class with its `x`, `y`, and `z` properties for managing 3D
points. It can also represent a spatial vector in physics, which has a direction
and a magnitude. The methods of the Vector3D class let you perform common
calculations with spatial vectors, such as addition, dot product, and cross
product calculations.

<div>

Note: The Vector3D class is not related to the ActionScript Vector class. The
Vector3D class contains properties and methods for defining and manipulating 3D
points, while the Vector class supports arrays of typed objects.

</div>

</div>

<div>

## Creating Matrix3D objects

<div>

There are three main ways of creating or retrieving `Matrix3D` objects:

- Use the `Matrix3D()` constructor method to instantiate a new matrix. The
  `Matrix3D()` constructor takes a `Vector` object containing 16 numeric values
  and places each value into a cell of the matrix. For example:

      var rotateMatrix:Matrix3D = new Matrix3D(1,0,0,1, 0,1,0,1, 0,0,1,1, 0,0,0,1);

- Set the value the `z` property of a display object. Then retrieve the
  transformation matrix from the `transform.matrix3D` property of that object.

- Retrieve the Matrix3D object that controls the display of 3D objects on the
  stage by calling the `perspectiveProjection.toMatrix3D()` method on the root
  display object.

</div>

</div>

<div>

## Applying multiple 3D transformations

<div>

You can apply many 3D transformations at once using a Matrix3D object. For
example if you wanted to rotate, scale, and then move a cube, you could apply
three separate transformations to each point of the cube. However it is much
more efficient to precalculate multiple transformations in one Matrix3D object
and then perform one matrix transformation on each of the points.

<div>

Note: The order in which matrix transformations are applied is important. Matrix
calculations are not commutative. For example, applying a rotation followed by a
translation gives a different result than applying the same translation followed
by the same rotation.

</div>

The following example shows two ways of performing multiple 3D transformations.

    package {
        import flash.display.Sprite;
        import flash.display.Shape;
        import flash.display.Graphics;
        import flash.geom.*;

        public class Matrix3DTransformsExample extends Sprite
        {
            private var rect1:Shape;
            private var rect2:Shape;

            public function Matrix3DTransformsExample():void
            {
                var pp:PerspectiveProjection = this.transform.perspectiveProjection;
                pp.projectionCenter = new Point(275,200);
                this.transform.perspectiveProjection = pp;

                rect1 = new Shape();
                rect1.x = -70;
                rect1.y = -40;
                rect1.z = 0;
                rect1.graphics.beginFill(0xFF8800);
                rect1.graphics.drawRect(0,0,50,80);
                rect1.graphics.endFill();
                addChild(rect1);

                rect2 = new Shape();
                rect2.x = 20;
                rect2.y = -40;
                rect2.z = 0;
                rect2.graphics.beginFill(0xFF0088);
                rect2.graphics.drawRect(0,0,50,80);
                rect2.graphics.endFill();
                addChild(rect2);

                doTransforms();
            }

            private function doTransforms():void
            {
                rect1.rotationX = 15;
                rect1.scaleX = 1.2;
                rect1.x += 100;
                rect1.y += 50;
                rect1.rotationZ = 10;

                var matrix:Matrix3D = rect2.transform.matrix3D;
                matrix.appendRotation(15, Vector3D.X_AXIS);
                matrix.appendScale(1.2, 1, 1);
                matrix.appendTranslation(100, 50, 0);
                matrix.appendRotation(10, Vector3D.Z_AXIS);
                rect2.transform.matrix3D = matrix;
            }
        }
    }

In the `doTransforms()` method the first block of code uses the DisplayObject
properties to change the rotation, scaling, and position of a rectangle shape.
The second block of code uses the methods of the Matrix3D class to do the same
transformations.

The main advantage of using the `Matrix3D` methods is that all of the
calculations are performed in the matrix first,. Then they are applied to the
display object only once, when its `transform.matrix3D` property is set. Setting
DisplayObject properties make the source code a bit simpler to read. However
each time a rotation or scaling property is set, it causes multiple calculations
and changes multiple display object properties.

If your code will apply the same complex transformations to display objects more
than once, save the Matrix3D object as a variable and then reapply it over and
over.

</div>

</div>

<div>

## Using Matrix3D objects for reordering display

<div>

As mentioned previously, the layering order of display objects in the display
list determines the display layering order, regardless of their relative z-axes.
If your animation transforms the properties of display objects into an order
that differs from the display list order, the viewer might see display object
layering that does not correspond to the z-axis layering. So, an object that
should appear further away from the viewer might appear in front of an object
that is closer to the viewer.

To ensure that the layering of 3D display objects corresponds to the relative
depths of the objects, use an approach like the following:

<div>

1.  Use the `getRelativeMatrix3D()` method of the Transform object to get the
    relative `z-axes` of the child 3D display objects.

2.  Use the `removeChild()` method to remove the objects from the display list.

3.  Sort the display objects based on their relative z-axis values.

4.  Use the `addChild()` method to add the children back to the display list in
    reverse order.

</div>

This reordering ensures that your objects display in accordance with their
relative z-axes.

The following code enforces the correct display of the six faces of a 3D box. It
reorders the faces of the box after rotations have been applied to the it:

<div>

    public var faces:Array; . . .

    public function ReorderChildren()
    {
        for(var ind:uint = 0; ind < 6; ind++)
        {
            faces[ind].z = faces[ind].child.transform.getRelativeMatrix3D(root).position.z;
            this.removeChild(faces[ind].child);
        }
        faces.sortOn("z", Array.NUMERIC | Array.DESCENDING);
        for (ind = 0; ind < 6; ind++)
        {
            this.addChild(faces[ind].child);
        }
    }

</div>

To get the application files for this sample, see
[_FlashPlatformAS3DevGuideExamples.zip_](https://github.com/joshtynjala/flash-platform-as3-dev-guide-examples/releases/tag/original).
The application files are in the Samples/ReorderByZ folder.

</div>

</div>

<div>

<div>

</div>

</div>
