# Incorporating motion tween scripts

<div>

The header in the ActionScript code that you copy from Flash lists all the
modules required to support the motion tween.

</div>

<div>

## Motion tween classes

<div>

The essential motion tween classes are the AnimatorFactory, MotionBase, and
Motion classes from the `fl.motion` package. You could need additional classes,
depending on the properties that the motion tween manipulates. For example, if
the motion tween transforms or rotates the display object, import the
appropriate `flash.geom` classes. If it applies filters, import the
`flash.filter` classes. In ActionScript, a motion tween is an instance of the
Motion class. The Motion class stores a keyframe animation sequence that can be
applied to a visual object. The animation data includes position, scale,
rotation, skew, color, filters, and easing.

<div>

The following ActionScript was copied from a motion tween that was created in
Flash to animate a display object whose instance name is `Symbol1_2`. It
declares a variable for a MotionBase object named `__motion_Symbol1_2`. The
MotionBase class is the parent of the Motion class.

    var __motion_Symbol1_2:MotionBase;

Then the script creates the Motion object:

    __motion_Symbol1_2 = new Motion();

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div>

## Motion object names

<div>

In the previous case, Flash automatically generated the name
`__motion_Symbol1_2` for the Motion object. It attached the prefix `__motion_`
to the display object name. Thus, the automatically generated name is based on
the instance name of the target object of the motion tween in Flash. The
`duration` property of the Motion object indicates the total number of frames in
the motion tween:

<div>

    __motion_Symbol1_2.duration = 200;

By default, Flash automatically names the display object instance whose motion
tween is copied, if it does not already have an instance name.

</div>

When you reuse ActionScript created by Flash in your own animation, you can keep
the name that Flash automatically generates for the tween or you can substitute
a different name. If you change the tween name, make sure that you change it
throughout the script.

Alternately, in Flash you can assign a name of your choosing to the target
object of the motion tween. Then create the motion tween and copy the script.
Whichever naming approach you use, make sure that each Motion object in your
ActionScript code has a unique name.

</div>

</div>

<div>

<div>

</div>

</div>
